Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at milestones within the GitHub issues feature.
I'm currently logged into GitHub, in my personal account, on the "website" repository.
Within that repository, I'm currently on the issues main page.
Before we create a new issue, let's look at milestones; click on the "Milestones" tab.
When you first get here, you won't have any milestones associated with this project,
so let's create one; click on the green "New milestone" button.
And milestones are just major events that you're building up to within your repository.
It could be a pending release, or some other type of checkpoint.
I'm going to create a milestone called "Beta 1"; in the title, I'm going to say "Beta 1".
In the description, I'm just going to type some descriptive text
that provides a little bit more context for this milestone.
Additionally, I could provide an optional date;
I'm going to set this out to next week, then I'm going to click "Create milestone".
Great, well I'm going to create another milestone while I'm here.
Click on "New milestone", I'm going to name this "Beta 2";
provide a description accordingly, and set this two weeks out from where I currently am,
and then I'm going to click "Create milestone". Great, now I have two milestones.
At any point I could delete a milestone, close the milestone, or edit the milestone.
For example, I'm going to edit Beta 2; go over to the right hand side, and click on "Edit".
I've decided that two weeks really isn't enough for the next beta,
so I'm going to advance to the next month and choose a more reasonable timeframe.
I'm going to select the 4th, then click "Save changes".
Great, I'm going to create one more for the purpose of closing it.
Go to new milestone; I'm going to create "Alpha 1",
then, for the description, "This is the first alpha for this project".
I'm going to set this date for a few weeks ago, then "Create milestone".
What you'll notice is that GitHub will let us know that we are past due by a month.
I'm going to go ahead and close this milestone; I can either do that within the edit page,
or directly on this page by clicking on "Close".
Closing the milestone will move that milestone from the open status to the closed status.
I can always access it again by clicking on the "Closed" status.
And, if I needed to, I could re-open this milestone, or I could just delete it.
I'm going to keep it around, and just return back to open.
Once you have a number of milestones listed, you also have the ability to sort,
and we have various options, including: closest due date, furthest due date,
least complete, most complete, most issues, least issues.
Since we don't have any issues yet, we're not going to bother
sorting on those last two items. Alright, I believe that's enough for now,
so I'm going to return back to the main issues page.